# Create the Main Calculate Method #

Now that we have our basic calculate functions, we need to add a couple of helper constants and some basic helper test methods.

---

The constants will just make our calc statement easier to read.
The two helper methods will help us know if the value is a `Number` or a `Function`

```
const ADD = '+'
const MINUS = '-'
const TIMES = '*'
const DIVIDE = '/'

const isNumber = function(v) {
  return typeof v === 'number' ? true : false
}

const isFunction = function (v) {
  return typeof v === 'function' ? true : false
}
```

> You should notice that the helper functions are using the ternary command, and you will notice a new command, `typeof` this command will return a string describing the type of the value.

---

Now we have the trickiest part of our calculator project.
Our `calc` function takes two arguments, an accumulator argument and the current value through the collection, this function signature enables us to reduce a collection of items into a single result.
And we want to take a collection of equation items and return a calculated result:

```
[1, '+', 2] === 3
```

So we are going to tell the program to reduce through this collection with what we call a seed value.

The first time the function is called, it will pass the following:

```
acc = 0
x = 1
```

We will return a result of 1

```
acc = 1
x = '+'
```

we will return a result of add(1)

```
acc = add(1)
x = 2
```

we will return a result of 3

> You can think of this as walking though the list of arguments *accumulating* the value of the equation and, at the same time, *reducing* the list of arguments.

---

To implement a reducer function we are using a group of `if` statements. An `if` statement is very similar to a ternary statement, but it does not have to return a result upon evaluation and is not required to have a false block. In this case we are comparing the x argument to see if it is an operator and the acc is a number, if the operator is ADD, then return the result of add(acc), which will be a function. We do the same check for minus and times and divide.

Then the last if statement we check to see if the acc is a function, if so then we return the result of the acc(x) function. If no match, then return the x as the next acc.

```
const calc = function (acc, x) {
  if (x === ADD && isNumber(acc)) {
    return add(acc)
  }
  if (x === MINUS && isNumber(acc)) {
    return subtract(acc)
  }
  if (x === TIMES && isNumber(acc)) {
    return multiply(acc)
  }
  if (x === DIVIDE && isNumber(acc)) {
    return divide(acc)
  }

  if (isFunction(acc)) {
    return acc(x)
  }

  return x
}
```

---

Finally, for the exported function, we use the collection or array's reduce command passing in the calc function as the first argument and the 0 for the seed of the first accumulator.

```
const calculate = function (e) {
  return e.reduce(calc, 0)
}

module.exports = calculate

```

---

Save this information to the `calculator.js` file. This will complete the logic for our calculator engine. Now all we have to do is connect the presentation to the engine.

---

[Back](.) | [Prev](3) | [Next](5)
