# Handle Clicking on the Calculator Buttons #

In project 4 we used HTML attributes to connect to click events, in this application we want to use the Document Object Model (DOM) to programmatically attach javascript functions to click events.

---

The first set events we want to handle are the number keys. When a user clicks any of the 0-9 buttons we want to add the number to the input box of the calculator. For example, if a user clicks `3` button then `6` button, we want to combine those values and display the value `36`.

We will need a helper function: `concat`

```
const concat = function (a, b) {
  return a + b
}
```

> This function looks like it should add the contents of `a` and `b`. But, if `a` and `b` are in string, not numeric, format, javascript will append (or concatenate) 'b' on the end of 'a'.

---

Next we will need a function that will enable us to loop through all of the number key buttons and attach a click event to them. We will call this helper function a `forEach` function, and it will take a function handler and a collection of elements.

<!---
`const forEach = (handler, elements) ->`
--->

```
const forEach = function (handler, elements) {
  for (var i = 0; i < elements.length; i++) {
    handler.call(null, elements[i], i)
  }
}
```

This function introduces a new statment, the `for` loop. This statement will iterate through a defined range. This range is defined by three statements inside the parentheses.

`for (start; end; increment)`

The start section is looking for an assignment statment that represents the starting value.
The end section is looking for a comparison to determine the criteria to continue the loop.
The increment section is looking for the logic to increase the starting value.

In this case, we are starting with zero and stopping when the value is no longer less than the length of the collection.

The other new concept here is the call function. This function is used to invoke the referenced function with no attached context, the value of the element collection and the index.

This function enables us to use the `DOM`'s `document.querySelectorAll` function to get all the buttons that are number buttons and then loop through them adding a click event handler.

---

## What is an event handler?

An event handler is a way to instruct your program to listen for user initiated events that can occur when the user reacts to your application. You can then tell your program to run code against those events.

Now that we have our basic loop method, we need a handler method to add to the forEach function as an argument.

```
const handleValueClick = function (el) {
  el.addEventListener('click', function (e) {
    var txt = document.querySelector('input')
    txt.value = concat(txt.value, e.target.innerText)
  })
}
```

This event handler will take the element as an argument and call its addEventListener function to attach the function passed as the second parameter to the elements click event.
Then the anonymous function (the second parameter to `handleValueClick`) will grab the input element and use the concat method to append the value of the button with the current value of the input box.

---

To tie it all together we need to call the forEach function with our querySelectorAll function.

```
forEach(handleValueClick, document.querySelectorAll('.value'))
```

So this forEach function will take each element with a value class and loop through it calling the handleClick function.

---

We want to do the same thing for the operator buttons. For these we need to create a new handle function for Operators.

```
var eq = Array()
const handleOperator = function (el) {
  el.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
    var txt = document.querySelector('input')
    eq.push(parseInt(txt.value, 10))
    eq.push(e.target.innerText)
    txt.value = ''
  })
}
```

In the operator function we attach a click event listener that will grab the input element and push the current value of the input element onto our equation array. Then the operator function will push the operator that was clicked on to the equation array and then clear out the input value.

---

The last two event listeners we need to attach are the calculate command and the reset command.

```
const calc = document.querySelector('.calc')
calc.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
  var txt = document.querySelector('input')
  eq.push(parseInt(txt.value))
  txt.value = calculate(eq)
})

const reset = document.querySelector('.reset')
reset.addEventListener('click', function (e) {
  var txt = document.querySelector('input')
  txt.value = ''
  eq = []
})
```

---

Both of these event listeners grab the input value and either clear the value and equation or call our calculate API with the equation array or collection.

At this point, you should have a fully working calculator.

---

[Back](.) | [Prev](/4)
